CSS property update: *-gap (#44950)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/column-gap/index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* <length-percentage> value */
```

column-gap: 3%;
column-gap: calc(3% - 6px);

> /* <line-width> values */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* <line-width> keyword value */
```

- `normal`

>   - : For multi-column layout, resolves to `1em`; otherwise `0`. This is the default value.

Reviewer: same updates needed here as suggested in `gap`

- `<line-width>`
  - : A {{cssxref("&lt;line-width&gt;")}}: one of the keywords `thin`, `medium`, or `thick`, or a positive {{cssxref("length")}} value.
- {{CSSxRef("length-percentage")}}

>   - : A non-negative {{CSSxRef("&lt;length&gt;")}} or {{CSSxRef("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} value. Percentages are relative to the inline-size of the content box.

Reviewer: same updates needed here as suggested in `gap`

## Description

> The `column-gap` property sets the size of the gap between an element's columns. The property specifies a fixed-length gutter between items in a container, separating boxes in the container's inline axis. Negative values are invalid. The default value `normal` resolves to `1em` on multi-column containers, and `0` everywhere else.

Reviewer: we can skip the repetition here
```suggestion
The `column-gap` property sets the size of the gap between an element's columns. The property specifies a fixed-length gutter between items in a container, separating boxes in the container's inline axis. Negative values are invalid.
```

Percentages are calculated against the [content box](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_model/Introduction#content_area) size of the container element's inline axis when this size is definite, against `0` otherwise, except in grid layout, for which cyclic percentage sizes resolve against zero for determining {{glossary("intrinsic size")}} contributions but resolve against the element's content box when laying out the contents.

> The column gap may contain a visible separator as a [gap decoration](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Gaps). If there is a rule between the columns, set with the {{cssxref("column-rule")}} or {{cssxref("rule")}} shorthand properties, it will appear in the middle of the gap, but has no effect on the size of the gaps between the column.

Reviewer: for better clarity, the 2nd sentence can be split up and all pronouns can be explicitly named
```suggestion
The column gap may contain a visible separator as a [gap decoration](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Gaps). To draw a rule between the columns, use the {{cssxref("column-rule")}} or the {{cssxref("rule")}} shorthand. The rule appears in the middle of the gap but has no effect on the size of the gap between the columns.
```

> The `column-gap`, along with the {{cssxref("row-gap")}} property, can also be set using the {{cssxref("gap")}} shorthand property which sets both the `row-gap` and `column-gap` in one declaration, in that order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `column-gap` property, along with the {{cssxref("row-gap")}} property, can also be set by using the {{cssxref("gap")}} shorthand, which sets both `row-gap` and `column-gap` in one declaration, in that order.
```

> A legacy `grid-column-gap` is an alias for `column-gap`. It was initially defined in [grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) for creating gaps between grid columns.

Reviewer: let's start with the property this page is about and then link it to legacy ones
```suggestion
The `column-gap` property replaced the `grid-column-gap` property, which was was initially defined in [CSS grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) for creating gaps between grid columns. `grid-column-gap` is now an alias for `column-gap`.
```
